If the Chinese had invented AI, they would never be foolish enough to let it be controlled by the user. They would turn it into a tool of the state, so will the the US but in a really broken way.

- I have recently listened to the Anabasis aka March of 10,000. It's the most amount of entertainment I have ever been able to draw from a single object. It's a story of epic journey of a group of mercenaries around 4th century BC. 
- The most remarkable feat in the story is the practice of democracy, as soon as the problem arises, the group gets together and presents solutions, and then they vote on the solution. The one with highest votes is implemented. Yet even more remarkable fact is that the group is lead by multiple generals, and they work together through most of the journey. But then all of the sudden the soldiers decide that separation of power is making them slow to react to the situation, and they vote to give all the power to one general, and made a rule that whoever opposes the general will be executed. This is absolutely remarkable. 
- Our society is not very good at reacting to the situation, and on top of that we have a lot of people who are actively working against the society. We don't have the capacity to practice democracy of such a high order.
- And that is what will be needed to deal with the problems of the future created by AI.
- Government is often slow to react to the serious problems, and the problems tend to get worse when eventually the government does react to the problem. They end up creating more problems than they solve. American forefathers were aware of this, and tried their best to create a system that would be able to deal with the problems of the future. 