Points for failure or Risks in AI systems
- Can we trust the people that are refusing to have a dialogue?
- The most obvious risk the restructure of the economy and the loss of jobs. It's not a question of if, but when. The impact of this will be felt across the globe, and it's not clear how society will adapt to this change. This is something that needs to be addressed now, before it's too late. 
- Aiding bad actors, the potential for AI to be used for malicious purposes is a real concern. We need to be vigilant in ensuring that AI is used for good, and not for harm.
- The potential for AI to be used to manipulate people is also a concern. We need to be aware of the risks, and take steps to mitigate them. Although this is going to be inevitable, we need to be prepared for it. We might see the reverse effect where people would want to be manipulated, AI is perfect tool to create personalize echo chambers where one can feel safe and secure in their version of reality.
- TV, Internet, and especially smart phone get accredited for being immensely addictive. AI will create a new level of immersive experience that will be even more addictive. It'll be hard to resist for all those who have access to it. The society, natural world, and nations might be crumbling, but the people will be happy in their virtual world. As long as people have food and shelter, and access to their virtual world, they will be manageable. This is leading me to think that the future of humanity is in the hands of the people who control the virtual world. Imagine virtual stations at homeless shelters, and food banks that allow the people to escape their reality. Who'd want to leave? 
- The last problem might the single most devastating condition that AI will create for human civilization. We may never fix any of our actual problems, because we will be too busy escaping them.
- Since slowly transitioning to programming, I have come in contact with software engineering spaces. I am shocked to say that software engineers are just as prone to bad ideas as any other field expert. Being expert in one field seems to correlate with being ignorant in another. People working with AI must be multi disciplinary. 